[GSoC 2019] - Create a GSoC 2019 application draft (#1994)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/projects/gsoc/2019/application.md

The project has about 400 active contributors working on Jenkins core, plugins, website, project infrastructure, localization activities, etc. In total we have around 2000 different components including plugins, libraries, and various utilities. The main languages in the project are Java, Groovy and JavaScript, but we also have components written in other languages.

This year we invite students to join the Jenkins community and to work together on Jenkins plugins in order to improve Jenkins user experience and reliability.

#### Proposal process:

In order to apply to the organization, please follow the [guidelines posted on our website](https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/students/#student-application-process). 

Before submitting please go through the page (including the expectations section) and through the [Student guide](https://google.github.io/gsocguides/student/). Participating in Google Summer of Code is a serious commitment requiring an almost full-time dedication over several months. If it may overlap with your study and other commitments, we recommend to think twice before applying.

> If you have any questions about the application process, please feel free to contact us via the “jenkinsci-gsoc-orgs@googlegroups.com” mailing list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any questions about the application process, please feel free to contact us via the “jenkins-gsoc-2019-org-admins@googlegroups.com” mailing list.
```

Author: was also suggested as a change in the diff, should be fixed now

#### Proposal tags (max - 10)

* new feature
* user experience
* plugins
* performance
* plugin developer tools
* electronic design automation

#### Contents

* Chat page URL: https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/gsoc-sig
* Mailing list page URL: https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/#contacts 
* General-purpose e-mail: jenkinsci-gsoc-all-public@googlegroups.com

### Application

#### Why does your org want to participate in Google Summer of Code?

> In our community we are interested in more contributors in both Jenkins core and more than 1,000 of existing plugins. We consider Google Summer of Code as an opportunity to find new contributors and students interested in software development automation (continuous integration and continuous delivery). For us it is also a great opportunity to get existing contributors more involved into the community work. We have previously participated in GSoC 2016 and got much experience from it, especially regarding the student selection process. We also learned our lesson in 2017, we were able to attract more mentors interested in the project. We hope this will help us to improve student/mentor experience and overall results this year.

Reviewer 2: Not sure I know what this means "We also learned our lesson in 2017..." I did not participate with Jenkins that year. Is it still applicable for the 2019 application? Maybe we can say something about SIGs and a more targeted mentor recruiting process? WDYT?

Author: Yes, it was a case in 2018. I think that we can just remove it from the draft

Author: ```suggestion
In our community we are interested in more contributors in both Jenkins core and more than 1,000 of existing plugins. We consider Google Summer of Code as an opportunity to find new contributors and students interested in software development automation (continuous integration and continuous delivery). For us it is also a great opportunity to get existing contributors more involved into the community work. We also conducted [public retrospective after GSoC 2018](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sJ9KIYHUoFWWE9HmoZC7HPDxm2i3uMFGQ2KKZ_1TTjk/edit?usp=sharing) and addressed feedback from students and mentors in our processes and documentation. We hope this will help us to improve student/mentor experience and overall results this year.
```

#### How many potential mentors have agreed to participate?
6-10

#### How will you keep mentors engaged with their students?

* Each student project will have at least 2+ mentors AND org admin advisor assigned to the project.
* Mentors are expected to be accomplished Jenkins contributors, who are passionate about the community/mentorship work.
* Mentors bring their own project, and they are expected to have a high interest in it
* Mentors will be directly involved into student selection and interview processes so they will establish connection with successful students early
* We do not require mentors to be experts in the code base, because we expect students to work with other community members.

> * We will conduct Weekly meetings between mentors and org admins to sync-up on progress and any issues.

Author: ### 
```suggestion
* Starting from Dec 2018 we conduct [weekly meetings](https://jenkins.io//projects/gsoc/#office-hours) between mentors and org admins to sync-up on progress and any issues:
```

* As org admins we will be monitoring mentor/student interaction starting from the application phase. If something goes wrong, as org admins we will jump in and/or find additional mentors
* There will be a private communication channel between org admins and mentors.

#### How will you help your students stay on schedule to complete their projects?

* During the Community Bonding phase mentors will share their expertise in order to define realistic project plans, design document, and effort estimations.
* The student project milestones will be discussed and confirmed between mentors and students. Milestones will be aligned with student evaluations and will have clear expectations set up.
* Mentors will set up regular meetings with students (at least twice per week) in order to sync-up on projects. We will also recommend having retrospectives with students after evaluations.

> * Mentors should be available to questions. They should also provide a periodic feedback on the progress of the project and on the performance of particular students (1x1).

Author: ```suggestion
* Mentors should be available for questions. They should also provide a periodic feedback on the progress of the project and on the performance of particular students (1x1).
```

* We will set up weekly public office-hours with students (or two meetings if time-zones require it) and private ones between mentors and org admins to sync-up
* We will be requiring a daily push to branches so that the students always show the progress and keep changes atomic.
* During the coding period, mentors will participate in the code reviews of their student and report to org admins if the project stalls.

#### How will you get your students involved in your community during GSoC?          
* Students will cooperate with Jenkins community during the project. Org Admins will provide an introductory training (community overview, code-of-conduct, etc.), then mentors will help students to establish contacts with experts from the community
* We will ensure that students are around in public chats and other communication channels during the “working days”
* Students will be encouraged to present proofs-of-concept of their projects on public Jenkins Developer meetings and in blog posts

> * Students will be involved into all standard processes in our community (including pull requests, code reviews, IRC/Gitter discussions, test automation for their projects, documentation development, etc.).

Reviewer 3: Do we have standards for what constitutes adequate test coverage?

Reviewer 3: Also when - do we expect unit tests to be included for each PR?

Author: Nope. "Please have some tests" would be a good advice in https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/students/ , but I would rather prefer to leave the detailed requirements to mentors

* Students may be participating in Jenkins Governance Meetings (https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Agenda). 
* The Jenkins project has an active blog, and students will be encouraged to use this to give updates to the wider community.

#### How will you keep students involved with your community after GSoC?

* There will be a [Jenkins World conference](https://www.cloudbees.com/jenkinsworld/home) in USA in August 2019. We plan sponsoring successful students to go to this or other Jenkins-focused conference & contributor summit.The projects will be also presented at the [Jenkins Online Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Jenkins-online-meetup/).
* Students will be developing their own modules for Jenkins and effectively they will retain ownership of these modules after GSoC (they can opt-out, of course). Public presentations will attract attention, and the students will be periodically contacted by users.
* Students will be also advised to present their projects at local Jenkins Area Meetups (https://jenkins.io/projects/jam)

> * Each project will have a strict Definition Of Done: public availability, Q&A chats, [blog posts on the project website](https://jenkins.io/node/). The students will be visible in the community even after the main GSoC phase.

Reviewer 3: How would you feel about including some statement of test coverage in definition of done?

Author: This section is about keeping students engaged, and DoD list defines only items which contribute to it

#### Has your org been accepted as a mentoring org in Google Summer of Code before?
Yes, in 2016 and 2018

2018: 2/3 (+1 cancelled project during community bonding)
2016: 1/5 (3 students have been failed due to major undisclosed time commitments, which impacted the project quality at the first coding phase)

#### If your org has applied for GSoC before but not been accepted, select the years

> 2009, 2017 (I thought 2017 too)

Reviewer 2: What do you mean "I thought 2017 too"?

Author: No idea. Copy-pasted and didn't notice

Author: ```suggestion
2009, 2017
```

---
:layout: simplepage
:title: "Jenkins GSoC application draft, 2019"
:tags:
- gsoc
- gsoc2019
---

> <!-- This file uses Markdown intentionally.

Author: @jenkins-infra/copy-editors and esp. @bitwiseman Would you be OK with using Markdown formatting for this page as an exception?

* Topic Tags: continuous integration, continuous delivery, developer tools, devops
* Ideas list: https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2019/project-ideas/ 

#### Short description

Jenkins is the open source automation server. 
Built primarily in Java, it provides hundreds of plugins to support building, testing, deploying and automating virtually any project.

#### Long description (Markdown)

[Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/), originally founded in 2006 as "Hudson", is one of the leading automation servers available. 
Using an extensible, plugin-based architecture developers have created hundreds of plugins to adapt Jenkins to a multitude of build, test, and deployment automation workloads. 
Jenkins core is open-source ([MIT License](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php))

The project has about 400 active contributors working on Jenkins core, plugins, website, project infrastructure, localization activities, etc. 
In total we have around 2000 different components including plugins, libraries, and various utilities. 
The main languages in the project are Java, Groovy and JavaScript, but we also have components written in other languages.

> This year we invite students to join the Jenkins community and to work together on Jenkins plugins in order to improve Jenkins user experience and reliability.

Author: If we have subprojects like Jenkins X participating, we will need to reflect it here.

Reviewer: Let's leave status quo as-is; I haven't received any project proposals from Jenkins X developers as of today (December 26th).

If it may overlap with your study and other commitments, we recommend to think twice before applying.

If you have any questions about the application process, 
please feel free to contact us via the “jenkinsci-gsoc-orgs@googlegroups.com” mailing list.

#### Proposal tags (max - 10)

* new feature
* user experience
* plugins
* performance
* plugin developer tools
* electronic design automation

#### Contents

* Chat page URL: https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/gsoc-sig
* Mailing list page URL: https://jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/#contacts 
* General-purpose e-mail: jenkinsci-gsoc-all-public@googlegroups.com

### Application

#### Why does your org want to participate in Google Summer of Code?

In our community we are interested in more contributors in both Jenkins core and more than 1,000 of existing plugins. 
We consider Google Summer of Code as an opportunity to find new contributors and students interested in software development automation (continuous integration and continuous delivery). 
For us it is also a great opportunity to get existing contributors more involved into the community work. 

> We have previously participated in GSoC 2016 and got much experience from it, especially regarding the student selection process. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> We also learned our lesson in 2017, we were able to attract more mentors interested in the project. 

Author: ```suggestion
We also conducted [public retrospective after GSoC 2018](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sJ9KIYHUoFWWE9HmoZC7HPDxm2i3uMFGQ2KKZ_1TTjk/edit?usp=sharing) and addressed feedback from students and mentors in our processes and documentation.
```

#### How will you get your students involved in your community during GSoC?          
* Students will cooperate with Jenkins community during the project. 
  Org Admins will provide an introductory training (community overview, code-of-conduct, etc.), 
  then mentors will help students to establish contacts with experts from the community
* We will ensure that students are around in public chats and other communication channels during the “working days”
* Students will be encouraged to present proofs-of-concept of their projects on public Jenkins Developer meetings and in blog posts
* Students will be involved into all standard processes in our community (including pull requests, code reviews, IRC/Gitter discussions, test automation for their projects, documentation development, etc.).
* Students may be participating in Jenkins Governance Meetings (https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Governance+Meeting+Agenda). 
* The Jenkins project has an active blog, and students will be encouraged to use this to give updates to the wider community.

#### How will you keep students involved with your community after GSoC?

> * There will be a [Jenkins World conference](https://www.cloudbees.com/jenkinsworld/home) in USA in August 2019. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There will be a [DevOps World - Jenkins World conference](https://www.cloudbees.com/devops-world) in USA in August 2019 and then in Europe in Dec 2019.
```

> * There will be a [Jenkins World conference](https://www.cloudbees.com/jenkinsworld/home) in USA in August 2019. 

Reviewer: I added another suggestion below, changing the link to https://www.cloudbees.com/devops-world with a web page that displays 2019 dates.
